The first piece that interested me was Olia Lialina's piece, My Boyfriend Came Back from the War. To progress through the story you click on the images, causing the screen to divide and more images or text to pop up. I was drawn to this one because of how the way it's composed gives off emotions of gloominess or anxiety, which isn't normally what you'd expect in a piece that tells a story of reuniting. The biggest contributor to the somber atmosphere is the use of grainy, monochrome images over a black background. Going further through the narrative confirms that their reunion was not a very happy one and even mentions Lialina having cheated on him with a neighbor while her boyfriend was away. It also show phrases of anxiety that she may have felt while he was gone such as “where are you?” and “you don’t trust me, do you?”. Reading through the piece the first time I had difficulties figuring out which order was the right way for me to continue through the story, but after going through it a couple more times I found that this nonlinear arrangement could be interpreted as a sort of chaos that may have been going on in her mind with her distressed thoughts.

The second piece that caught my eye was Rafaël Rozendaal’s piece, into time .com. The piece starts off with a transitioning gradient that divides itself in half and changes color whenever you click on it. What I found most interesting about this piece was that each time someone interacted with it a new, unique piece could be created. This helped to encourage in playing around with the site to see what other works you could make. Upon looking at this work for the first time I also thought it bore resemblance to the way some websites would display color swatches of an image in place of the actual image while waiting for it to load.

The last piece that I looked at was Aleksandra Domanović’s piece, Grobari. This piece is a sculpture which consists of thousands of PDFs printed out and stacked on top of each other. Depicted on the sides of the sculpture are flares used by football fans and is meant to commemorate the tragic events that took place in Yugoslavia. I felt the piece’s simple execution provided a powerful message in trying to get people to remember what had taken place in 2009.
