Kohl
Tiffany 
Stephany 


	Over the last decade there has been a considerable number of practices coming to light in regards to the use of user data by social media companies, few of them good. For the most part these concerns have been focused on Facebook (and by its subsidiary  Instagram), primarily because this is where the concerns for user data security have proven to be founded. What's more concerning is that the majority of users are only vaguely, if at all, aware of the extent to which their privacy is being subverted. So, in the interest of dispersing this information, let’s discuss some of the questionable policies our favorite social media sites have put in place, and then discuss what we as a community would like to change.
 We have seen Facebook not only collect, and exploit the data we give them - what we post and fill into our personal information - but also that of what our friends do. While you might be able to regain some security by deleting posts on your account, you have no control over friends’ accounts1. In addition, in many cases the data Facebook and Instagram collect has very little if anything to actually do with Facebook or Instagram itself. They might collect, for instance, what or how often you use other apps, what news sites you frequent and, who’s in your contacts. We store our lives on our phones and computers. Do we really want Mark Zuckerberg to be able to look that deep into them? What’s more, Facebook’s security has proven itself to be far less than ideal, with multiple breaches resulting in hackers having access to users profiles, one hitting as many as 87 million users2, and while Mark Zuckerberg has been very clear that Facebook does not sell user data, this may not stay the case forever. Recent reports show that during a profit dip in 2012, the company did consider doing so. One wonders if the idea ever really left the table. 
Now, this may be fairly abstract, but the disquiet becomes much more real when you start seeing what types of things your data is being used for. For example, preceding the 2016 presidential election, Cambridge Analytica “the firm [that] offered tools that could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behavior”3 did just that, subtly manipulating Facebook users to their own ends. This type of mass manipulation is deeply troubling. A very small number of people and some bots can alter the way we think through targeted ads and misinformation, and we make it so easy for them. This kind of manipulation only works if they know who the target is, what your likes are, who you know, what kind of personality you have. This is all data that Facebook has easy access to. That which we don’t tell them ourselves they can easily infer from our friends and sites we have recently visited.
All of this begs the question: what can we do about all this? Well as it happens, we can do a lot. Social media is unique in that the users are both the product and the customer. The company makes money off advertising to us, and we use social media because there is a preexisting network of people we care about who are already there. Using a social network without people isn’t an enjoyable way to spend your time. What does that mean for us? We’re undoubtedly important to social media companies. With enough outcry we have an excellent chance to really change things. The problem here is, to return to a previous point, the people who are aware of the present danger social media’s data policies are the relative minority by a massive margin. The first step to reaching a safer, more private, internet is for all of us to take on the responsibility of spreading news that this is something that we need. To that end, here is a rudimentary Social Media Bill of Rights, a list of the rights and protections all of us should have while we do all our browsing, posting, and yes and even lurking. We’re human beings and we have a right to the protection of our privacy, whether we’re online or not. Tell us what you think should be on our Social Media Bill of Rights using our hashtag #ConsitutionalInternet or see what other people suggested at our website [INSERT WEBSITE]

A Social Media Bill of Rights 


I.
   Social Media Companies shall not profit from the sale of users data

II.
  Social media shall not have access to the data of the users friends 

III.
    Social media shall not collect user data about things irrelevant to the social media

IV.
   Prompt responses to complaints 

V.
   Social media will not support the use of bots in any form

VI.Social media’s main priority should be for social networking; not for commercial purposes.
   

1.Granville, Kevin. "Facebook and Cambridge Analytica: What You Need to Know as Fallout Widens." The New York Times. March 19, 2018. Accessed December 04, 2018. https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/19/technology/facebook-cambridge-analytica-explained.html.
2.Hoffmann, Brandon C. "An Exploratory Study of a User 's Facebook Security and Privacy Settings." December 2012, 14-17.
3.Ingram, David. "Facebook Says Data Leak Hits 87 Million Users, Widening Privacy..." Reuters. April 05, 2018. Accessed December 04, 2018. https://www.reuters.com/article/us-facebook-privacy/facebook-says-data-leak-hits-87-million-users-widening-privacy-scandal-idUSKCN1HB2CM.







